This Repository contains 3 machine learning projects:  
**1) Heart Failure Predictive Modeling**  
**2) Parkinson's Disease Prediction and Detection**  
**3) Pneumonia Classification Using CNN deep learning model**  

**************************************
#### Project 1  
Cardiovascular diseases are the number one cause of death globally, taking an estimated of 17.9 million lives each year, which accounts for 31% of all deaths worldwide. Heart failure occurs when the heart cannot pump enough blood to meet the needs of the body. Machine learning applied to medical records, in particular, can be an effective tool both to predict the survival of each patient having heart failure symptoms (Latha, 2019), and to detect the most important clinical features (or risk factors) that may lead to heart failure (Lawler, 2019). Scientists can take advantage of machine learning not only for clinical prediction, but also for feature ranking. The incorporation of machine learning and data science has the potential to impact on clinical practice in the health care field, becoming a new supporting tool for physicians when predicting if a heart failure patient will survive or not. Indeed, medical doctors aiming at understanding if a patient will survive after heart failure may focus mainly on serum creatinine and ejection fraction (Chicco, 2020). This project seeks to analyze and understand to see if we can create a predictive modeling to know when a patient will have a heart failure disease based on their given health attributes. It furthers test different machine learning models to find the most suitable predictive model.

The dataset used in this project is publicly available on Kaggle website and can be access through the link provided: [Kaggle link](https://www.kaggle.com/andrewmvd/heart-failure-clinical-data)

#### Project 2

Parkinson’s disease is a progressive nervous system disorder that affects movement. Symptoms often start gradually, sometimes with a slight tremor in the hand. The disorder can also cause stiffness or slowing of movement. Symptoms can also include rigid muscles, impaired posture and balance, loss of automatic movements, speech changes, and writing changes. Typically, there are five stages to Parkinson’s; each stage corresponds both to the severity of movement symptoms and how much the disease affects a person’s daily activity (Spears, n.d.). Doctors also use scales that help them understand the progression of the disease, which focus on motor symptoms (Parkinson’s Foundation, n.d.). Making an accurate diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease can be complicated. The standard diagnosis is clinical, meaning there is not test that can give a conclusive result. Instead, doctors look for certain physical symptoms to be present to qualify a person’s condition as Parkinson’s disease (Johns Hopkins Medicine, n.d.). Early detection, along with the start of treatment, would have a relevant effect on both the quality of life of patients and the healthcare system. This would allow the development of new therapies, and a better understanding of the disease and its evolution (Adams, 2017). This project seeks to analyze and understand if we can create a preditive model for early detection and diagnosis of Parkinson’s Disease based on the tests’ results. The project also further evaluates and analyzes to see which predictive model is best for early diagnosis of Parkinson’s Disease. 

The dataset used in this paper is publicly available on Kaggle website and be accessed through the link below: [Kaggle link](https://www.kaggle.com/nidaguler/parkinsons-data-set)

#### Project 3  
Pneumonia is an infection of one or both of the lungs caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi. It is a serious infection in which the air sacs fill with pus and other liquid. Clinical pneumonia in children under five years of age is still the leading cause of childhood mortality in the world (Rudan, et al., 2004). Pneumonia causes the death of around 700,000 children every year and affects 7% of the global population. To detect pneumonia, chest X-rays are performed, however, even for a trained radiologist and doctors, it is very challenging to examine chest X-rays and try to diagnose whether pneumonia has developed or not.
A novel approach to diagnose chest X-rays for pneumonia is to apply deep learning techniques to train the model for both pneumonia infected lungs and healthy lungs. Then, we can use the model to detect for pneumonia. However, this novel approach still need a lot of finetuning and work before it can accurately detect pneumonia (Stephen, 2019). By applying deep learning techniques to detect pneumonia, it can open the door to more opportunities and more ways to health care diseases prevention and detection. This project seeks to create a novel approach to diagnose chest X-rays for pneumonia through the use of deep learning, particularly convolutional neural network, by creating a predictive model through the use of training an existing pneumonia images from patients.

The dataset used in this paper is publicly available on Kaggle website and can be accessed through the link below:
1. [Kaggle Link](https://www.kaggle.com/paultimothymooney/chest-xray-pneumonia)  
An alternative link to the dataset is directly through the researchers’ website:  
2. [Direct Link](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/rscbjbr9sj/3)
